-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to understand
about EKS cluster architecture
in combination with Kubernetes cluster components.
Okay?
So as usual in EKS control plane,
which is nothing but cluster control plane,
so you'll have the master node.
Same as our regular Kubernetes cluster.
So we'll have the container runtime,
Kube APA server, headsets, Kube scheduler,
and here it is going to be Kube control manager.
And in addition to that, we are also going
to have something called Fargate control manager
and then Fargate related scheduler also will be available
as part of that.
So which we'll schedule the Fargate ports on,
serverless Fargate, infrastructure in AWS.
So in addition to that,
if you see there we have the worker nodes.
And here you can say it has EKS manager node groups.
So under this we are going to anyway have worker nodes only
and the container runtime kubelet
and then Kube-proxy here common everywhere.
So now what is differing here?
Okay, so it means like you have
the EKS cluster control plane
and the EKS manager node groups
and on regular on-premise Kubernetes also
we have all of these things.
It means like the master components
and then worker components.
So what happens in EKSs?
EKS lets us focus only on our application workloads.
So we don't need to worry
about any of these components.
Either it is exit high availability,
our kube scheduler part,
our kube API server part,
our disrespect to enter what is present
in these blue boxes is not our job.
Our core focus will be how to design our applications
and then how to deploy those applications
into Kubernetes cluster
and its node groups available in AWS.
So which means, so we really don't need to worry
about the high availability or the maintenance
or anything about these master worker nodes.
So once we create and then create the cluster auto scaler
for our EKS, our job is done.
So the rest end-to-end maintenance
of all of these components
will be the responsibility of the AWS.
So that's about the EKS specialty.
So with that said, we'll move
on with our next steps in our upcoming lectures.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye-bye.
Thank you.